Anyone can access the learning materials for free once they have been published. Accessing them via the CA Platform means you can see when and where organised classes are running. You can “join” a class online by accessing the materials at that time. The interface enables you to see other participant’s notes, to comment on them and make your own. You can also choose to give and receive feedback on any submitted images.
 
The Connected Academy Platform organises content like a playlist. Each class’s audio content are in fact audio-montages edited from 3 or 4 different interviews so you can choose between the essential playlist or the longer, deep-dive versions. A supplementary series of podcasts by photographers are also available, these address the course’s key questions directly.
 
The classes have four phases. Phase one, you are invited to produce photographic response to a provocation, for example for lesson 1 you’re asked to: “Tell me the story of something that isn’t there”
Phase two is where the participant gets access to the class content and is directed to make notes and comments via the Connected Academy Platform.
Phase three is review, reflection and discussion.
Phase four is a revisiting of the initial photographic response (with the benefit of both the class session, its deep-dive content and the networked class community) and sharing the updated or new version.  <this might be better as a diagram?>
 
Before you start the course, you’ll be required to answer a few questions. This is because Talking Pictures is also a research project<link to ABOUT page>. We want to know if the design of the content and the platform, enable people to teach and learn, in, and of digital spaces better. In order to do this we’ll ask you some questions before and some (there might be a few sneaky questions along the way tooJ). All of the answers and any other data are anonymised, so your answers and your learning journey will not be associated with you personally.  None of the data gathered will be shared with any third parties and all research outcomes will be published for open access.